Let's discuss and define the business unit and programs.
Let's contrast the last module regarding product requirements
with this module regarding a business unit.
As a product business analyst,
you would likely focus on a single or small number of systems or
single business function like sales or distribution.
Agile team members are organizational closer,
easier to constitute,
and there isn't really any organizational silos, typically. The business domain
or organization is relatively easy to get your arms around.
As a business unit or program analyst, you would focus on large‑scale systems,
applications,
products, or suites of products so you would have a much broader responsibility.
Organizing agile teams across the business unit at scale is much more complex.
As a product or business analyst,
you might focus on one system or maybe a couple.
Some companies will look at these boxes or systems as
standalone entities or silos, therefore,
you need to have a new way of looking at your suite of applications.
But as a business unit analyst,
you will focus on a broad set or suite of applications or systems,
so you may be working with multiple Agile teams driving towards a
broad set or suite of products and services.
The role of the analyst looking at broadly scoped
requirements is very challenging.
Let's look at an organizational construct that may help.
That construct is the program.
Another term for business unit is program.
I rather like program since it will give us more
organizational flexibility if you need it.
A program is a group of related projects and operations
managing a coordinated manner to obtain benefits not
available from managing them individually.
Program management is the application of knowledge,
skills, tools, and techniques to meet program requirements.
Organizations with mature program management are more
successful than those without it.
More benefits can be derived from managing them collectively rather than
individually with the general business goals of increasing revenue, avoiding
costs, and improving customer service. Programs are a relatively simple, but
very important organizational construct.
Programs exist in order to focus resources that will enable
broader business benefits and objectives.
Programs have a broader reach,
business impact, and benefits than a project does or single
product. Because business unit level requirements activities have a
significant impact positive or negative on other projects and
operations within the business unit,
the construct of a program is used to manage the effective use of those
resources. Let's say these three critical business functions in the red box
are placed into a container that is a program.
This will help the business unit better manage.
Those resources to achieve the common goal within that
red box, it's a simple and great idea.
So in this module you will see how you fit into the broader business
unit and program requirements gathering activities. Here are the key
characteristics or attributes of a program.
Unlike projects,
programs may never end or may end only when the
business requirements or strategy changes.
Programs have a higher level of complexity projects,
obviously since they will involve many projects and operational
elements and their dependencies. Programs involve a broader range
of senior management or stakeholders.
If you're going to have many projects and operations,
you will quite likely have more management and stakeholders involved.
Programs use more resources than any project might.
Well, sure,
multiple projects and operations will certainly add up to more
resources in people and money, and they will have more
potential conflict in business issues.
Well, yes,
certainly you have higher level of management and much more
resources to compete with, which may result in more potential
conflict and problem resolution, and programs require much more coordination,
to say the least.
It takes an immense amount of coordination,
management acumen,
communication skills, and experience to work on or run a program.
So you already might see how skilled senior business analysts will play a role in programs.